
layout: function
title: Date Component
category: function_page
compatibility: -crf
excerpt: 'Displays and allows entry of a single date (year, month, day). To display a read-only date using a custom format, use a text component.'
fnccat: Interface_Component
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!dateField
fncsubcat: Inputs
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: Text to display as the field label.
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: Supplemental text about this field.
  - keyword: required
    name: Required
    types: Boolean
    description:  |
      Determines if a value is required to submit the form. Default: false.
  - keyword: readOnly
    name: Read-only
    types: Boolean
    description:  |
      Determines if the field should display as not editable. Default: false.
  - keyword: disabled
    name: Disabled
    types: Boolean
    description:  |
      Determines if the field should display as potentially editable but grayed out. Default: false.
  - keyword: value
    name: Display Value
    types: Date
    description: Date to display in the field.
  - keyword: validations
    name: Validations
    types: List of Text String
    description: Validation errors to display below the field when the value is not null.
  - keyword: saveInto
    name: Save Input To
    types: List of Save
    description: One or more variables that are updated with the date when the user changes it. Use a!save() to save a modified or alternative value to a variable.
  - keyword: validationGroup
    name: Validation Group
    types: Text
    description:  |
      When present, this field is only validated when a button in the same validation group is pressed. See the documentation for more information about how to use validation groups.
  - keyword: requiredMessage
    name: Required Message
    types: Text
    description: |
      Custom message to display when the field's value is required and not provided.
  - keyword: align
    name: Alignment
    types: Text
    description:  |
      Determines alignment of the date value. Appian recommends this setting only be used inside the Grid Layout component. Valid values: "LEFT", "CENTER", "RIGHT".
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: 
        - "ABOVE" (default) Displays the label above the component.
        - "ADJACENT" Displays the label to the left of the component.
        - "COLLAPSED" Hides the label. The label will still be read by screen readers; see accessibility considerations for more information.
        - "JUSTIFIED" Aligns the label alongside the component starting at the edge of the page.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description:  |
      Determines whether the component is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.
reftype: sailcomponent
scdisplayname: Date
space: sail_component

Function
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Displays and allows entry of a single date (year, month, day). When the field is editable, users can input dates by typing or by picking from a calendar.
When working with date and time (year, month, day, hour, minute, second), use a date & time component. To display a time (hour, minute, second), use a time component. To display a read-only date using a custom format, use a text component.
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Usage considerations
Calendar and date formatting

The date is shown in the current user's time zone and calendar format.
If you want to display a date with formatting other than the default, use the Text Field component.

Keyboard shortcuts

When focused on the calendar, selecting the P key will go to the previous month, the N key will go to next month, the T key will select today's date, and the Delete key will clear the value in the field.

Examples
INCLUDE PAGE: SAIL intro
Date with only a label
{% sailbox 490 %} 
a!dateField(
  label: "Created On",
  value: date(2013, 1, 12)
)
{% endsailbox %}
Date with a validation
{% sailbox 520 %} 
a!localVariables(
  local!storedValue:today()-1,
  a!dateField(
    label:"RSVP By",
    value: local!storedValue,
    saveInto: local!storedValue,
    validations: if(
      local!storedvalue <= today(),
      "Please set the RSVP by to a future date",
      ""
    )
  )
)
{% endsailbox %}