
layout: function
title: Edit Group Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: 'The Edit Group smart service allows you to select a group and update any of its available fields, including its name, description, and parent group.'
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!editGroup
fncsubcat: Identity_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: group
    types: Group
    description: The group to modify.
  - keyword: name
    types: Text
    description: The name of the group.
  - keyword: description
    types: Text
    description: The description of the group.
  - keyword: delegatedCreation
    types: Boolean
    description: Should administrators of this group be permitted to create additional groups as children? The default value is false.
  - keyword: parent
    types: Group
    description: The group's parent. You must be an administrator of this group.
  - keyword: membershipPolicy
    types: Text
    description: 'The membership policy of the new group. Valid values include CLOSED (default), EXCLUSIVE, AUTOMATIC. See Group Membership Policy for definitions of the membership policies.'
  - keyword: securityType
    types: Text)
    description: 'The security type of the new group. Valid values include PUBLIC (default), PERSONAL, RESTRICTED. See Group Visibility for definitions of the security types.'
  - keyword: groupPrivacy
    types: Text
    description: 'The privacy policy of the new group. Valid values include LOW (default), HIGH. See Group Privacy Policy for definitions of the group privacy rules.'
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Identity_Management
ssicon: Add_Group_Members.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services


Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} 
Permissions needed
The Edit Group smart service can only be executed by a system administrator or by an administrator of the group. Attempting to run this node without sufficient rights causes an error message to be sent to the process administrator and pauses the process. This also occurs if you attempt to rename a group using an existing name or specify an object that does not exist.
Attempting to execute this task as a Basic User causes a runtime exception that pauses the process and sends an alert to the Process Administrator.
Properties


Category: Identity Management


Icon:  


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
Node inputs



Name
Type
Required
Multiple
Default Value
Comments




Group
Group
Yes
No




Name
Text
Yes
No

The following characters are not allowed in group names.
/ \ < > " , . * '


Description
Text
No
No




Delegated Creation?
Integer

No
0 (No)
The default values are Yes or No. The integer 1 equals yes. 0 equals no.


Parent Group
Group
No
No

The user account that activates this activity must have Administrator rights for the parent group in order to add this new group as a child.


Membership Policy
Number
Yes
No
Closed
Default value options: Closed, Exclusive, Automatic


Visibility
Number
Yes
No
Public
Default value options: Public, Personal, Restricted


Privacy Policy
Number
Yes
No
Low
Default value options: Low, High



If the activity is run without being assigned to a user (or a group) you must specify values for each of the node inputs listed.
Selecting a Personal visibility input value sets other associated node input values automatically. Be aware that the node input lists on the Data tab and the dropdown lists displayed task form are not automatically filtered when this happens to show only valid options for the visibility. Any invalid selections (made by you at design time, or by your users at runtime) are ignored when the group is created.
If the Visibility input is set to Personal, the following settings are configured automatically.

The Group Type input is set to Custom
No value can be specified for the Parent Group node input.
The membership policy node input is set to Closed.
The privacy policy node input is set to High.

a!editGroup()
The Edit Group smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto on a Interface Component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Returns
Save
Example
See Create Group Smart Service