
layout: function
title: Modify Folder Security Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: 'The Modify Folder Security smart service allows you to select a user to be added to a specified folder as a reader, author, and/or administrator.'
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!modifyFolderSecurity
fncsubcat: Document_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: folder
    types: Folder
    description: The folder you want to set security for.
  - keyword: readers
    types: List of User or Group
    description: The new users and groups to have reader access to the folder.
  - keyword: authors
    types: List of User or Group
    description: The new users and groups to have author access to the folder.
  - keyword: administrators
    types: List of User or Group
    description: The new users and groups to have administrator access to the folder.
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Document_Management
ssicon: Modify_Folder_Security.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services

Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} Only a System Administrator or a Knowledge Center Administrator can add users in these roles.

appian-style-caution
This node can only be executed with the appropriate user rights. Attempting to complete this task without sufficient rights generates an error message for the Process Administrator and pauses the process.

Properties


Category: Document Management


Icon: 


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
This tab displays all the Node Inputs and Node Outputs for the Service Node. You can add additional inputs and outputs, if needed. The default inputs are:



Input
Type
Required
Multiple




Folder
Folder
Yes
No


Readers
People
No
Yes


Authors
People
No
Yes


Administrators
People
No
Yes



The users and groups selected as readers, authors, and administrators will be added to that role for the folder.  The folder's existing readers, authors, and administrators, will not be removed when this smart service executes.
a!modifyFolderSecurity()
The Modify Folder Security smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto on a Interface Component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}