
layout: function
title: Time Display Component
category: function_page
compatibility: -crf
excerpt: 'Displays a single time (hour, minute, second) but cannot take input.'
fnccat: Interface_Component
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!timeDisplayField
fncsubcat: Display
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: Text to display as the field label.
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: Supplemental text about this field.
  - keyword: value
    name: Display Value
    types: Time
    description: The time to display.
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: 
        - "ABOVE" (default) Displays the label above the component.
        - "ADJACENT" Displays the label to the left of the component.
        - "COLLAPSED" Hides the label. The label will still be read by screen readers; see accessibility considerations for more information.
        - "JUSTIFIED" Aligns the label alongside the component starting at the edge of the page.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: |
      Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: |
      Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines whether the component is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.
reftype: sailcomponent
scdisplayname: Time Display
space: sail_component

Function
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Displays a single time (hour, minute, second) but cannot take input.
When working with a date (year, month, day), use a date component. When working with date and time (year, month, day, hour, minute, second), use a date & time component. To display a time using a custom format, use a text component.
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Usage considerations
Formatting

The time is shown in the current user's time zone. For example, 1:20 PM.
If you want to display a time with formatting other than the default, use the Text component.

Examples
Copy and paste an example into the INTERFACE DEFINITION in EXPRESSION MODE to see it displayed.
Time with only a label
sail 
a!timeDisplayField(
  label: "Daily Meeting Time",
  value: time(13, 20)
)
Displays the following:
{:.screenshot}