
layout: function
title: User Picker Component
category: function_page
compatibility: -crf, -om, -portal
excerpt: Displays an autocompleting input for the selection of one or more users.
fnccat: Interface_Component
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!pickerFieldUsers
fncsubcat: Pickers
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: Text to display as the field label.
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: Supplemental text about this field.
  - keyword: required
    name: Required
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if a value is required to submit the form. Default: false.
  - keyword: requiredMessage
    name: Required Message
    types: Text
    description: |
      Custom message to display when the field's value is required and not provided.
  - keyword: readOnly
    name: Read-only
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if the field should display as not editable. Default: false.
  - keyword: disabled
    name: Disabled
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if the field should display as potentially editable but grayed out. Default: false.
  - keyword: maxSelections
    name: Maximum Selections
    types: Number (Integer)
    description: |
      Maximum number of allowed selections. Once this number is reached, further selections are blocked until a selection is removed.
  - keyword: groupFilter
    name: Group Filter
    types: Group
    description: |
      When present, only users who are members of this group are suggested.
  - keyword: value
    name: Display Value
    types: List of Username
    description: Array of currently selected users.
  - keyword: validations
    name: Validations
    types: List of Text String
    description: Validation errors to display below the field when the value is not null.
  - keyword: validationGroup
    name: Validation Group
    types: Text
    description: |
      When present, this field is only validated when a button in the same validation group is pressed. See the documentation for more information about how to use validation groups.
  - keyword: saveInto
    name: Save Input To
    types: List of Save
    description: One or more variables that are updated with the array of selected users when the user selects or removes a user. Use a!save() to save a modified or alternative value to a variable.
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: 
        - "ABOVE" (default) Displays the label above the component.
        - "ADJACENT" Displays the label to the left of the component.
        - "COLLAPSED" Hides the label. The label will still be read by screen readers; see accessibility considerations for more information.
        - "JUSTIFIED" Aligns the label alongside the component starting at the edge of the page.
  - keyword: placeholder
    name: Placeholder
    types: Text
    description: Text to display in the field when it is empty. Does not show if the field is read only.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: |
      Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines whether the component is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.
reftype: sailcomponent
scdisplayname: User Picker
space: sail_component

Function
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
{{ page.excerpt }}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Usage considerations
Saving and displaying values and placeholders

Any nulls in the array passed to selected users are not displayed.
The component always saves an array regardless of how many selections have been made.
Whether placeholder text clears on focus or input varies by device and browser. 

Filtering and permissions

All user members are suggested when groupFilter is used, including users who are members of member groups and users who are members by rule.
The user viewing the picker must have access to view any users passed to the value. Only users that the viewing user has permissions to see appear in the suggestions list. When Group Filter is not null, the viewing user must have permission to view members of the filter group for any suggestions to be made.
