
layout: function
title: Web Content Component
category: function_page
compatibility: -crf, -om
excerpt: Displays content inline from an external source.
fnccat: Interface_Component
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!webContentField
fncsubcat: Display
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: Text to display as the field label.
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: 
        - "ABOVE" (default) Displays the label above the component.
        - "ADJACENT" Displays the label to the left of the component.
        - "COLLAPSED" Hides the label. The label will still be read by screen readers; see accessibility considerations for more information.
        - "JUSTIFIED" Aligns the label alongside the component starting at the edge of the page.
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: Supplemental text about this field.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines whether the component  is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.
  - keyword: source
    name: Source
    types: Safe URI
    description: Location of the external content.
  - keyword: showBorder
    name: Show Border
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines whether the field has an outer border. Default: false.
  - keyword: height
    name: Height
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines the layout height. Valid values: "SHORT", "MEDIUM" (default), "TALL".
  - keyword: altText
    name: Alternative Text
    types: Text
    description: Equivalent alternate text provided to assistive technology.
  - keyword: disabled
    name: Disabled
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if the user is prevented from interacting with the web content. Default: false.
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.
  - keyword: marginAbove
    name: Margin Above
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines how much space is added above the layout. Valid values: "NONE" (default), "EVEN_LESS", "LESS", "STANDARD", "MORE", "EVEN_MORE". 
  - keyword: marginBelow
    name: Margin Below
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines how much space is added below the layout. Valid values: "NONE", "EVEN_LESS", "LESS", "STANDARD" (default), "MORE", "EVEN_MORE". 
reftype: sailcomponent
scdisplayname: Web Content Field
space: sail_component

Function
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
{{ page.excerpt }}

appian-style-note
To protect users from how Safari handles memory, the Web Content component will display as an inline link when viewed in those browsers.

Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Usage considerations
Embedding content

Not all content can be embedded. The best way to know if your content can be embedded or not is to test it. If it can't be embedded, the component will be empty. Some sources explicitly prevent being embedded, such as https://www.google.com and https://www.yahoo.com/.
Screen readers will typically announce the embedded page's title (found in the <title> attribute). When no title is provided, the altText value is used.

Supported content

This component supports displaying external content only. Internal Appian interfaces and Appian URLs are not supported.

Examples
Copy and paste an example into the INTERFACE DEFINITION in EXPRESSION MODE to see it displayed. 
Web content
sail 
a!webContentField(
  source: "https://example.com",
  height: "MEDIUM",
  showBorder: true,
  altText: "Example Domain"
)