
layout: function
title: Delete KC Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: 'The Delete KC node allows you to select a Knowledge Center and then completely remove it from the system, along with any child folders.'
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!deleteKnowledgeCenter
fncsubcat: Document_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: knowledgeCenter
    types: Knowledge Center
    description: The knowledge center to delete.
  - keyword: deleteSubfolders
    types: Boolean
    description: 'If set to true, deletes all child folders of this Knowledge Center. Default is false.'
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Document_Management
ssicon: Delete_kc.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services

Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} You must be a System Administrator, a member of the Document Administrators group, or Knowledge Center Administrator to complete this task.

appian-style-caution
This node can only be executed with the appropriate user rights. Attempting to complete this task without sufficient rights displays an error message and pauses the process.

Properties


Category: Document Management


Icon: 


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
This tab displays all the Node Inputs and Node Outputs for the Service Node. You can add additional inputs and outputs, if needed. The default inputs are:



Input
Type
Required
Multiple




Knowledge Center
Knowledge Center
Yes
No


Delete Children
Number
Yes
No



If the node is run without being assigned to a user (or a group) you must specify values for each of the Node Inputs listed in the table above. You can either manually enter data into the text-field, or a value can be generated using the using the Expression Editor. When using the Expression Editor, you can reference and modify Process Variables, rules, constants, and other data. The expressions then specify your Node Input values.
If the node is assigned, the Node Input values are typed by your assigned user(s) into a form.
a!deleteKnowledgeCenter()
The Delete Knowledge Center smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto on a component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}