
layout: function
title: Delete Group Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: The Delete Group smart service allows you to select a group and remove it from the system.
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!deleteGroup
fncsubcat: Identity_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: group
    types: Group
    description: The group to delete.
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: 'A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse(). When configuring this input, the fv!group function variable (Any Type) is available to specify the group that was created. For more information, see Function Variables.'
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Identity_Management
ssicon: Delete_Group.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services


Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} 

appian-style-note
The Portal Administrators and Document Administrators custom groups are built into Appian and cannot be deleted, even by system administrators.

Permissions needed
The Delete Group activity can only be executed by a system administrator or by an administrator of the group. Attempting to run this node without sufficient rights causes an error message to be sent to the process administrator and pauses the process.
Properties


Category: Identity Management


Icon:  


Assignment Options: This smart service can be either attended or unattended (default)


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
Node inputs



Name
Type
Required
Multiple
Default Value
Comments




Group
Group
Yes
No

The group to delete.



Selecting a Personal Visibility input value sets other associated node input values automatically. Be aware that the node input lists on the Data tab and the dropdown lists displayed task form are not automatically filtered when this happens to show only valid options for the Visibility. Any invalid selections (made by you at design time, or by your users at runtime) are ignored when the group is created.
a!deleteGroup()
The Delete Group smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto on a Interface Component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Returns
Save
Example
See Create Group Smart Service