
layout: function
title: Document Viewer Component
category: function_page
compatibility: -crf, -om
excerpt: Displays a document from document management on an interface.
fnccat: Interface_Component
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!documentViewerField
fncsubcat: Display
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: Text to display as the field label.
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: "ABOVE" (default), "ADJACENT", "COLLAPSED", "JUSTIFIED".
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: Supplemental text about this field.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: |
      Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".
  - keyword: document
    name: Document
    types: Document
    description: The document to display.
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines whether the component is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.
  - keyword: height
    name: Height
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines the field height. Valid values: "SHORT", "MEDIUM" (default), "TALL".
  - keyword: altText
    name: Alternative Text
    types: Text
    description: Equivalent alternate text provided to assistive technology.
  - keyword: disabled
    name: Disabled
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if the user is prevented from interacting with the document. Default: false.
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.
  - keyword: marginAbove
    name: Margin Above
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines how much space is added above the layout. Valid values: "NONE" (default), "EVEN_LESS", "LESS", "STANDARD", "MORE", "EVEN_MORE". 
  - keyword: marginBelow
    name: Margin Below
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines how much space is added below the layout. Valid values: "NONE", "EVEN_LESS", "LESS", "STANDARD" (default), "MORE", "EVEN_MORE". 
reftype: sailcomponent
scdisplayname: Document Viewer
space: sail_component

Function
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
{{ page.excerpt }}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Usage considerations
Displaying documents

This component displays documents stored in Appian. To display documents from another system use the Web Content Field.
Document not available will be displayed if the document is invalid, has been deleted, or the user does not have access to view it.
This component is not intended for displaying images or videos. To display an image from a document in Appian use a Document Image. To display a video use a Video Field.

Viewing documents on different devices

Document viewing behavior differs depending on the document type and browser. Some browsers may render documents inline, while other browsers or file types may be downloaded. Browser plug-ins or extensions may impact this behavior. Consider the browsers that your users will be using to access your application.
On Appian Mobile applications, the document viewer component appears as a document download link. The value provided in altText is used for the link label.

Security

For security purposes, documents are loaded using the static content URL. Missing system configuration will be displayed if this domain is not configured on your Appian instance. Refer to Post-Install Configurations for more details on this configuration.

Examples
Copy and paste an example into the INTERFACE DEFINITION in EXPRESSION MODE to see it displayed.
Example displaying a blank document
Replace the document field value with a valid document in your environment.
sail
{
  a!documentViewerField(
    label: "Appian Whitepaper",
    document: 282578,
    height: "TALL",
    altText: "5 Digital Transformation Predictions for 2018 and Beyond"
  )
}