
layout: function
title: a!dropdownFieldByIndex_20r2 Component 
space: sail_component 
reftype: sailcomponent 
excerpt: Displays a limited set of choices from which the user must select one item and saves the index of the selected choice.
category: function_page 
compatibility: -crf
fncname: a!dropdownFieldByIndex_20r2 
fncsubcat: Selection 
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples. 
fnccat: Interface_Component 
scdisplayname: Dropdown By Index
evolved_fncname: a!dropdownFieldByIndex
evolved_reason: 'Added an optional search box and renamed the placeholderLabel parameter to placeholder.'
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: 'Text to display as the field label.'
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: 
        - "ABOVE" (default) Displays the label above the component.
        - "ADJACENT" Displays the label to the left of the component.
        - "COLLAPSED" Hides the label. The label will still be read by screen readers; see accessibility considerations for more information.
        - "JUSTIFIED" Aligns the label alongside the component starting at the edge of the page.
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: 'Supplemental text about this field.'
  - keyword: required
    name: Required
    types: Boolean
    description: 'Determines if a value is required to submit the form. Default: false.'
  - keyword: disabled
    name: Disabled
    types: Boolean
    description: 'Determines if the field should display as potentially editable but grayed out. Default: false.'
  - keyword: choiceLabels
    name: Choice Labels
    types: List of Text String
    description: 'Array of options for the user to select.'
  - keyword: placeholderLabel
    name: Placeholder Label
    types: Text
    description: 'Text to display when nothing is selected and the value is null.'
  - keyword: value
    name: Selected Index
    types: Number (Integer)
    description: 'Index of the choice to display as selected.'
  - keyword: validations
    name: Validations
    types: List of Text String
    description: 'Validation errors to display below the field when the value is not null.'
  - keyword: saveInto
    name: Save Input To
    types: List of Save
    description: 'One or more variables that are updated with the choice index when the user changes the selection. Use a!save() to save a modified or alternative value to a variable.'
  - keyword: validationGroup
    name: Validation Group
    types: Text
    description: 'When present, this field is only validated when a button in the same validation group is pressed. See the documentation for more information about how to use validation groups.'
  - keyword: requiredMessage
    name: Required Message
    types: Text
    description: |
      Custom message to display when the field's value is required and not provided.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: 'Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".'
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: 'Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.'
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description: 'Determines whether the component is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.'

Dropdown By Index
Function: a!dropdownFieldByIndex_20r2()
Displays a limited set of exclusive choices from which the user must select one item and saves the index of the selected choice.  To save a value instead of the index, use a dropdown. This component is not available from the interface component picker in the design view.
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Notes

If you set Label Position to "ADJACENT" or "ABOVE", but do not give a value for Label, a space still displays to the left-side or above, respectively, of the component as if there was a label displayed. To ensure the component appears to the far left when Label has no value, use "COLLAPSED" for Label Position.
Choices display in the same order as defined in the Choice Labels parameter. The Choice Labels argument cannot be null.
Passing a null value to the dropdown's Selected Index parameter causes the placeholder text to appear selected. The Placeholder Label and Selected Index arguments cannot both be null. If the placeholder is selected and Required is true when a validating button is clicked, the field prompts the user to select a value.
The argument passed to the Placeholder Label parameter does not have an index.
Choice index numbers start at 1. The index number for Selected Index cannot be null, empty, less than 1, or greater than the length of the Choice Labels array.
The choice at the index passed to the Selected Index parameter displays as selected by default.
