
layout: function
title: Edit KC Properties Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: 'The Edit KC node lets you update the name, description and/or expiration date of a selected Knowledge Center.'
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!editKnowledgeCenterProperties
fncsubcat: Document_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: knowledgeCenter
    types: Knowledge Center
    description: The knowledge center to modify.
  - keyword: name
    types: Text
    description: The new name of the knowledge center.
  - keyword: description
    types: Text
    description: The new description of the knowledge center.
  - keyword: expirationDays
    types: Number (Integer)
    description: The number of days after which documents in the selected knowledge center will expire.
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Document_Management
ssicon: Edit_KC_Properties.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services

Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} To execute this node, you must be a System Administrator, a member of the Document Administrators group, or a Knowledge Center Administrator.

appian-style-caution
This node can only be executed with the appropriate user rights. Attempting to complete this task without sufficient rights generates an error message for the Process Administrator and pauses the process.

Keep in mind that the changes made by your process, such as giving a Knowledge Center a new name, might not be visible until you have refreshed the page.
Properties


Category: Document Management


Icon: 


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
This tab displays all the Node Inputs and Node Outputs for the Service Node. You can add additional inputs and outputs, if needed.
Node inputs
The default inputs are:



Input
Data Type
Required
Multiple




Knowledge Center
Knowledge Center
Yes
No


Name
Text
No
No


Description
Text
No
No


Expiration Days
Number
No
No



If the node is run without being assigned to a user (or a group) you must specify values for each of the Node Inputs listed in the table above. You can either manually enter data into the text-field, or a value can be generated using the Expression Editor. When using the Expression Editor, you can reference and modify Process Variables, rules, constants, and other data. The expressions then specify your Node Input values.
The default file-expiration interval is 10000 days.
If the node is assigned, the Node Input values are typed by your assigned user(s) into a form.

appian-style-note
When modifying the Knowledge Center's expiration date, enter the number of days until it expires, not an actual date.

a!editKnowledgeCenterProperties()
The Edit Knowledge Center Properties smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto on a Interface Component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}