
layout: basic
title: Execute Robotic Process Smart Service
excerpt: ''
notice: rpa_notice
proxy-topic: rpa
proxy-topic-group: F
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Robotic_Processes
ssicon: Execute_Robotic_Process.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services
weight: 500

Overview
Appian RPA customers can initiate robotic processes in their Appian process models. The Execute Robotic Process smart service streamlines the integration and executes the process synchronously in the context of the overall process model. Synchronous execution is useful if you want to return data from the robotic process execution and use it in subsequent nodes in the same process model.
To execute a robotic process in Appian RPA asynchronously, you can call the integration using the Call Integration smart service. When the robotic process is executed asynchronously, the process model moves to the next node whether or not the robotic process is complete, and the results aren't automatically returned.
Permissions needed
This smart service calls the Execute Robotic Process integration set up using an Appian RPA Connected System object. When the smart service is called, the integration is executed using the service account used to set up the connected system, not the user who initiated the process model. You won't need to configure additional permissions for this smart service to execute.
Properties

Category: Robotic Processes
Icon: 
Assignment Options: Unattended/Attended.

Configuration options
Setup tab
Select RPA Integration
The Setup tab allows you to select or create an Appian RPA integration.

Select Integration: Search or browse to select an existing RPA integration using the Execute Robotic Process operation.
Edit Integration: Open the selected integration in the integration designer. This button is only shown when an integration is selected. Users with viewer access will see the View Integration button instead and will be able to open the integration designer in read-only mode.
Create RPA Integration: Create a new Appian RPA integration to call with the smart service. The form allows you to enter the name and description of the new integration, where to save it, and what application to add it to. You can also select existing node inputs that should be added as inputs to the new integration.

Set Retries
You can configure the robotic process's retry behavior if it fails the first time it executes. The smart service automatically retries when the robotic process runs into an unexpected failure during the previous execution.
Use the dropdown menu to select the number of retry attempts, up to 1. You can also use the expression editor to set the number of retries. The expression must evaluate to an integer between 0 and 5 (inclusive).
Data tab
Node inputs
When an integration is selected, the integration's inputs will automatically appear as node inputs. If you change the selected integration or the inputs of the selected integration are updated outside the Process Modeler, the node inputs will be refreshed the next time you view the Data tab.
Node outputs
|Output|Data Type|Multiple|Description|
|-|-|-|
|Success|Boolean|No|Whether the robotic process started successfully or not.|
|ExecutionId|Text|No|Id of the robotic process execution displayed in the Appian RPA Console.|
|Status|Text|No|If the robotic process is started successfully, returns one of the following values: ENQUEUED, RUNNING, SUCCESS, FAILURE, ABORTED. If the status is anything other than SUCCESS or FAILURE, variables may include partial results.|
|Variables|Map|No|Variables configured by the developer in the robotic process configuration.|
|Retries|Integer|No|The number of time the robotic process had to retry before successfully executing.|
|FailureSection|Text|No|If the robotic process execution fails, the name of the workflow section where the failure occurred. Returns null if the execution finished successfully.|
|Error|IntegrationError|No|If the robotic process was not started successfully, this contains information about the error encountered. If the robotic process was started successfully but has a status of FAILURE or ABORTED, error details for that process are not provided here.|
Learn more about how robotic process variables pass data between workflow actions.
Runtime behavior
Once the Execute Robotic Process smart service is initiated, the integration calls the chosen robotic process. The robotic process continues running in the background even if the process model is paused, cancelled, or deleted. To pause or cancel the robotic process, visit the Appian RPA console.
If the robotic process is queued for execution, the node remains active. The node will time out after 96 hours, for any of the following reasons:
- the robotic process is running, but stuck in an infinite loop.
- the robotic process is still in the queue due to no available resources.
- the robotic process just moved from the queue to start running, but won't complete before the node's time limit.
When the node times out, you'll receive an error. If the robotic process remains in the queue, it will be removed automatically.