
layout: function
title: Modify KC Security Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: The Modify KC Security node allows you to select users and groups to be added to a Knowledge Center with one of a specific set of security roles.
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!modifyKnowledgeCenterSecurity
fncsubcat: Document_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: knowledgeCenter
    types: Knowledge Center
    description: The knowledge center you want to set security for.
  - keyword: readers
    types: List of User or Group
    description: The new users and groups to have reader access to the folder.
  - keyword: authors
    types: List of User or Group
    description: The new users and groups to have author access to the folder.
  - keyword: administrators
    types: List of User or Group
    description: The new users and groups to have administrator access to the folder.
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Document_Management
ssicon: Modify_KC_Security.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services

Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} See Knowledge Center Security for more information.
The available security roles for this are:

Readers
Authors
Administrators

You cannot remove users from a security role, using this smart service.
Only the owner or administrator of a Knowledge Center, a member of the Document Administrators group, or a System Administrator can add users to these roles. Prior security properties can be overridden by this node.

appian-style-caution
This node can only be executed with the appropriate user rights. Attempting to complete this task without sufficient rights generates an error message for the Process Administrator and pauses the process.

Properties


Category: Document Management


Icon: 


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
This tab displays all the Node Inputs and Node Outputs for the Service Node. You can add additional inputs and outputs, if needed. 
Node inputs
The default inputs are:



Input
Data Type
Required
Multiple




Knowledge Center
Knowledge Center
Yes
No


Readers
People
No
Yes


Authors
People
No
Yes


Administrators
People
No
Yes



If the node is run without being assigned to a user (or a group) you must specify values for each of the Node Inputs listed in the table above. You can either manually enter data into the text-field, or a value can be generated using the using the Expression Editor. When using the Expression Editor, you can reference and modify Process Variables, rules, constants, and other data. The expressions then specify your Node Input values.
If the node is assigned, the Node Input values are typed by your assigned user(s) into a form.
a!modifyKnowledgeCenterSecurity()
The Modify Knowledge Center Security smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto parameter on an interface component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}