
layout: function
title: Move Document Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '-crf, ~portal'
excerpt: The Move Document smart service allows you to select a document and move it to a new folder or a new Knowledge Center.
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!moveDocument
fncsubcat: Document_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: document
    types: Document
    description: The document to move.
  - keyword: destination
    types: Folder
    description: The new parent folder for the selected document.
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Document_Management
ssicon: Move_Document.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services

Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} Only a System Administrator, member of the Document Administrators group, a Knowledge Center Administrator, or the person who uploaded the document can move it. A document can only be moved in to an existing folder or Knowledge Center.

appian-style-caution
This node can only be executed with the appropriate user rights. Attempting to complete this task without sufficient rights generates an error message for the Process Administrator and pauses the process.

Properties


Category: Document Management


Icon: 


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
This tab displays all the Node Inputs and Node Outputs for the Service Node. You can add additional inputs and outputs, if needed. 
Node inputs
The default inputs are:



Input
Data Type
Required
Multiple




Document
Document
Yes
No


Destination
Folder
Yes
No



If the node is run without being assigned to a user (or a group) you must specify values for each of the Node Inputs listed in the table above. You can either manually enter data into the text-field, or a value can be generated using the using the Expression Editor. When using the Expression Editor, you can reference and modify Process Variables, rules, constants, and other data. The expressions then specify your Node Input values.
If the node is assigned, the Node Input values are typed by your assigned user(s) into a form.
a!moveDocument()
The Move Document smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto on a Interface Component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}