
layout: function
title: Move Folder Smart Service
category: function_page
compatibility: '~portal, -om, -crf'
excerpt: The Move Folder node allows you to select a folder and move it to a new Knowledge Center or folder (which must already exist).
fnccat: Smart_Service
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!moveFolder
fncsubcat: Document_Management
parameters:
  - keyword: folder
    types: Folder
    description: The folder to move.
  - keyword: destinationFolder
    types: Folder
    description: The new parent folder for the selected folder.
  - keyword: destinationKC
    types: Knowledge Center
    description: The new parent knowledge center for the selected folder.
  - keyword: onSuccess
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute after the smart service executes successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
  - keyword: onError
    types: Any Type
    description: A list of saves or an HTTP response to execute when the smart service does not execute successfully. Created with a!save() or a!httpResponse().
reftype: smart_service
sscat: Document_Management
ssicon: Move_Folder.png
ssparentcat: Automation_Services

Overview
{{ page.excerpt }} Only a System Administrator or Knowledge Center Administrator is able to move it. A folder cannot be moved in to a folder that is a descendant of itself.

appian-style-caution
This node can only be executed with the appropriate user rights. Attempting to complete this task without sufficient rights generates an error message for the Process Administrator and pauses the process.

Properties


Category: Document Management


Icon: 


Assignment Options: Attended/Unattended


Configuration options
This section contains tab configuration details specific to this smart service. For more information about common configurations see the Process Node Properties page.
Data tab
This tab displays all the Node Inputs and Node Outputs for the Service Node. You can add additional inputs and outputs, if needed. 
Node inputs
The default inputs are:



Input
Data Type
Required
Multiple




Folder
Folder
Yes
No


Destination Folder
Folder
No
No


Destination KC
Knowledge Center
No
No



If the node is run without being assigned to a user (or a group) you must specify values for each of the Node Inputs listed in the table above. You can either manually enter data into the text-field, or a value can be generated using the using the Expression Editor. When using the Expression Editor, you can reference and modify Process Variables, rules, constants, and other data. The expressions then specify your Node Input values.
If the node is assigned, the Node Input values are typed by your assigned user(s) into a form.
a!moveFolder()
The Move Folder smart service is available as an expression function that can be executed inside a saveInto parameter on an interface component or as part of a Web API.
Syntax
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}