
layout: function
title: Signature Component
category: function_page
compatibility: -crf
excerpt: Allows users to capture and save a .png signature file.
fnccat: Interface_Component
fncexample: Click on the function name for examples.
fncname: a!signatureField
fncsubcat: Inputs
parameters:
  - keyword: label
    name: Label
    types: Text
    description: Text to display as the field label.
  - keyword: labelPosition
    name: Label Position
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines where the label appears. Valid values: 
        - "ABOVE" (default) Displays the label above the component.
        - "ADJACENT" Displays the label to the left of the component.
        - "COLLAPSED" Hides the label. The label will still be read by screen readers; see accessibility considerations for more information.
        - "JUSTIFIED" Aligns the label alongside the component starting at the edge of the page
  - keyword: instructions
    name: Instructions
    types: Text
    description: Supplemental text about this field.
  - keyword: helpTooltip
    name: Help Tooltip
    types: Text
    description: |
      Displays a help icon with the specified text as a tooltip. The tooltip displays a maximum of 500 characters. The help icon does not show when the label position is "COLLAPSED".
  - keyword: target
    name: Target Folder
    types: Document or Folder
    description: Determines the eventual location of the saved signature file.
  - keyword: fileName
    name: File Name
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines the name for the signature file. When not provided, the timestamp will be used.
  - keyword: fileDescription
    name: File Description
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines the description for the signature file. When not provided, the description of the new file is empty.
  - keyword: value
    name: Display Value
    types: Document
    description: The signature file associated with this field.
  - keyword: saveInto
    name: Save Input To
    types: Save
    description: |
      Variable that is updated with the signature file when the user saves a signature. Removing a signature file removes the document and saves a null. Use a!save() to save a modified or alternative value to a variable.
  - keyword: required
    name: Required
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if a value is required to submit the form. Default: false.
  - keyword: requiredMessage
    name: Required Message
    types: Text
    description: Custom message to display when the value of the field is required but not provided.
  - keyword: buttonStyle
    name: Button Style
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines the style of the signature button. Valid values: "PRIMARY", "SECONDARY" (default), "STANDARD", "LINK".
  - keyword: buttonSize
    name: Button Size
    types: Text
    description: |
      Determines the size of the signature button. Valid values: "SMALL" (default), "STANDARD", "LARGE".
  - keyword: readOnly
    name: Read-only
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if the field should display as not editable. Default: false.
  - keyword: disabled
    name: Disabled
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines if the field should display as potentially editable but grayed out. When a signature is present in this state, it may not be deleted. Default: false.
  - keyword: validationGroup
    name: Validation Group
    types: Text
    description: |
      When present, this field is only validated when a button in the same validation group is pressed.
  - keyword: accessibilityText
    name: Accessibility Text
    types: Text
    description: Additional text to be announced by screen readers. Used only for accessibility; produces no visible change.
  - keyword: showWhen
    name: Visibility
    types: Boolean
    description: |
      Determines whether the component is displayed on the interface. When set to false, the component is hidden and is not evaluated. Default: true.
reftype: sailcomponent
scdisplayname: Signature
space: sail_component

Function
{% include fncsyntax.html %}
{{ page.excerpt }} You can only enable signature on start and task forms. The signature field cannot upload multiple signature captures or a pre-existing signature file.
Parameters
{% include parameter_table.html parameters=page.parameters header=page.reftype %}
Usage considerations
File names & disabled signature components

By default, the signature file uses the time stamp of when the signature was captured as a file name. You can define a custom file name in the fileName parameter. Check out the provided example to see a custom file name in use.
If any of the following characters appear in a signature's file name, they are replaced by underscores: \, /, ", ;, :, |, ?, ', <, >, or *. 
If the signature component is included in a record view or report, the field will be disabled.

File & target folder access

Any user submitting a form containing a signature must have at least author access to the target folder or document. 
Any issue with creating or updating the target folder or document will cancel the signature submission and display an error. 
Between uploading a signature file and submitting a form, the signature file is an inactive temporary document and not accessible.

Saving & canceling task forms with signatures

Task forms with one or more signature components can only be saved as a draft if there is no signature file uploaded.
Uploaded signature files on forms that have never been submitted will be deleted after 30 days.
When you cancel submitting a form, the uploaded signature file will be moved to its target folder or document. If you don't want the file to be saved, revert it to a new version using a process.

Example
Copy and paste an example into the INTERFACE DEFINITION in EXPRESSION MODE to see it displayed. 
Employee signature field
sail 
a!localVariables(
  local!signature,
  a!signatureField(
    label: "Employee Signature",
    labelPosition: "ABOVE",
    fileName: loggedInUser() & "_signature_" & today(),
    fileDescription: loggedInUser() & "'s signature on" & today(),
    value: local!signature,
    saveInto: local!signature
  )
)
Displays the following:
{:.screenshot}