
layout: "basic"
title: "Component Review Guidelines"
topic-group: "Review Process"
weight: 200

Before you submit your component for review, make sure you've reviewed the guidelines on this page. The criteria are split into three categories: Proper Use, Design, and Support.
In addition to these guidelines, component plug-ins must follow the general AppMarket submission policies.
Proper use

No replacements: Components must not duplicate or replace standard Appian components, regardless of styling, formatting, or minor functional differences.
No composites: Components must not duplicate or replace functionality that can otherwise be created with standard Appian components.
No full-page applications: Components must not be complete applications, independent of the surrounding Appian interface. Components should be modular, designed to work with other components to create a complete user experience, and should not be intended to fill the entire screen. Components that embed or integrate with external applications will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
No navigation: Components must not navigate users away from Appian interfaces.

Design

Components should be visually consistent with the rest of Appian, including branding configurations using the accent color.
Components should have a clear, narrow purpose. Avoid having a component with too many responsibilities. It is better to decompose a multi-purpose component into several more focused components.
External dependencies and costs should be clearly identified in the component description.
Components should not output messages to the browser console log. Errors or other information should be shown in the component or passed to the interface via parameters or validation messages.
Components must not include any proprietary third party libraries that require a license to be distributed or deployed in production, or require distribution of source code as a condition of use.

Support

You must properly identify your organization as the component vendor.
You must declare whether your plug-in is officially supported. *Official support- means customers can expect a response to inquiries and that bugs will be addressed in a timely manner.
Supported plug-ins must include valid support contact details.
Individual components must declare their support for browsers and mobile clients.


appian-style-tip
When creating an interface, developers can see who built a component, whether it's supported, the support contact details, and the available languages and browsers/mobile clients.
